we have finally been on the road
full-time as our beers for one year and
today we're gonna tell you how much it
cost
[Music]
so before we start dishing out all of
our numbers first I'm gonna tell you
what will not be included in this video
what won't be included was how much
money we spent on groceries and eating
out which I can tell you was way too
much last year maybe but we're not
getting into those numbers so any
numbers that are attributed to full time
are being our camping life we're not
including those because there's just way
too many variables with families and how
you travel and if you buy organic or not
organic or whatever so those are very
independent figures that we will leave
you to your own for that yeah and
because we do like to eat I like to
snack while I'm driving so the numbers
keep going up yeah yeah all the numbers
are going up alright so let's start with
how many miles we actually drove our
very first year we drove over 15,000
miles our first year that's right
fifteen thousand three hundred and fifty
one to be exact
yeah so that comes out to about twelve
hundred and seventy a month I guess I
read the whole my homework and it also
comes out too we drove way too fast
way too furious the first year yeah we
definitely want to work on slowing it
down this year some of the trips we took
especially right out of the gates when
we first started we were in that
vacation ya know now we want to go slow
slow slow slow alright and sixteen yes
so we hit 16 states our first year and
just so you know our rules when you look
at our map our rules are in order for us
to claim a state we can't just spend the
night in Walmart or even a harvest so so
we actually have to stay the night and
go do something there so we've actually
traveled through a lot more than 16 but
can only claim six yeah and when she
says do something that doesn't mean go
out and eat yep that would be an easy
sticker on the map but we have to
actually go out and do something
adventurous right well now that you know
how many miles we drove across the
country let's tell you how that all
broke up as far as where we stayed our
biggest chunk of where we stayed
most is on the military base so we
stayed 152 nights on a military base we
stayed 72 Knights in private campgrounds
which we're hoping our second year will
be much less that's a goal we stayed at
the Army Corps of engineer campgrounds
for 23 nights we stayed 21 days in a
hotel
I know shocker but we did go to Florida
for a week and Europe for two weeks we
stayed for free for 10 nights and that
was Walmart's
Cabela's and bass pro's yep we stayed in
safe state parks for 17 nights BLM land
for 17 nights and rallies for 16 nights
and then of course harvest hose and
Boone Dockers welcome is 11 nights and
then mooch docking in driveways is 9
nights so that shows you where we stayed
throughout the year and next year we're
hoping that's gonna be a little bit
different but there you go
that's what it is all right so let's get
into some of our breakdown of course all
my notes are on my phone alright let's
start with entertainment and this is
tickets so we spent 3,000 153 bucks
which equals out to 263 dollars a month
and a couple of those big ticket items
where we went to a preseason football
game last year in Tennessee and we also
hit a Kansas City Royals baseball game
when we were cutting to Kansas yeah and
those were our biggest expenses yeah all
right so next is fuel and I did have a
budget for fuel for diesel and the
budget was $500 a month mm-hmm yeah good
good budget and even with our fast and
furious driving believe it or not we
actually managed to come in under budget
so we spent five thousand two hundred
and ninety six bucks for the year and
that includes death as well that it does
and that equals out to four hundred and
forty-one bucks a month and what does
def stand for stays that stuff you put
in for the diesel
yeah so was it so what that fuel cost
includes is diesel for Ruby gas for the
cars and the DEP that Stacey spoke so
eloquently about so not too bad if you
you know if you consider we're driving
in Class A 30 to 35 foot diesel yeah
and we're averaging about nine miles to
the gallon
so next we went to two rallies and the
total cost for those who are three
hundred and eighteen bucks which you
know it's only two rallies but if you
did it monthly it's $27 a month it's not
bad for the two dollars that we went to
yeah and we had a ton of fun yes we got
a ton of friends and a ton of see
stories yeah it was awesome so we went
to Nomad fest
fest was the first one the next one we
went to was the escapees annual bash and
we had a blast it was so much fun and
you will be able to sign it for the that
annually it's an annual event for them
it was a lot of all right next is a huge
expense for us actually it is our
biggest expense we're talking about food
no comment alright so it is our towing
what we spent for towing and if you know
anything about our towing you'll know we
towed two different ways this year and a
couple different cars yeah so towing
costs and this is for everything
required to set up both the flat toe and
the dolly was six thousand ninety
dollars yeah so we thought we would go
the the cheap easier route and get a
dolly because we already had the two
cars that we could choose from in flat
and dolly tow those it worked out fine
in the beginning but after a while it
just became a pain in the tail having to
drag that dolly around we we did it for
about nine months probably eight months
too long and then we eventually switched
over to our flat toe setup which we
currently have alright so and that's an
expense that you know it's a one-time
experience right so one time so we won't
have to recalculate that annually year
after year so I was that six thousand
that it cost between the two setups we
did get about 800 of it back when we
sold our dolly yeah that's true
alright so next would be our internet
our internet came in the form of an ATT
hotspot that we got right out of the
gates before we started and I was paying
$150 a month for that hotspot and then
eventually found out there's other plans
out there and pay for a yearly service
contract which brought us down from 150
a month to 58 dollars a month so I paid
for the year up front what we spent
total for that is 2059 dollars
equals out to 172 a month but that being
said we paid the whole 700 up front in
January is when we made the switch so it
seems like a lot but that January is
gonna cover the whole rest of the year
yeah all right so next is our RV
insurance and that costs what 1631 and
we did pay the whole thing upfront to
save a couple bucks as we went through
because they added a little bit if you
wanted to do that monthly or even
quarterly and we are through progressive
yeah progressive gave us the best deal
alright next is our maintenance costs
for Ruby and this does not include any
maintenance for any of the vehicles this
is strictly for the RV and maintenance
for the year is three thousand three
hundred and sixty dollars which equates
out to 280 a month yeah which is not bad
for for having a used RV and the amount
of miles that we traveled so we did go
to Tiffin to get some some maintenance
items completed and while we were there
we also went to Beit Diesel and we got
our thirty thousand mile maintenance
done so we've got videos on that or a
video on that trip you actually have to
okay we have one for Tiffin and one for
baby so and I'll put the link for both
of those below and those videos do show
the exact breakdown of cost of both so
if you actually want to see our bill and
what we paid what for that is in the
video now another thing we did that was
a big cost item in that $3,000 is the
safety bus we actually went to the
safety of post factory there just
outside of Atlanta Georgia and the
reason we went there to do it is because
they only charge you for the part when
you go to the factory
so no labor costs were involved if you
go somewhere else then they charge you
for for labor safety plus for us is
another added piece of safety that we
wanted to have on Ruby mainly for tire
blowout as we're driving down the road
and of course we have a video on that
that's right um and and our evaluation
our assessment of that after we had it
on the rig for a while so of course that
video link will be down below as well
and it was actually of the the techs at
the safety post factory doing the
install so they let me get underneath
with them and film the whole thing and
they're a great company to work with
alright so next is memberships we have
quite a few memberships that we pay for
and our total for membership
it is 500 bucks or about 42 dollars a
month and our membership includes
escapees our planet fitness gym
membership which is actually our largest
cost because we pay right at twenty four
dollars a month for Planet Fitness which
allows us both to use the gym for that
one cost right
so other than that our I also have Boone
Dockers welcome and then RV trip wizard
which I love yeah those aren't bad
memberships to have either and they're
great prices yes so we have more than
paid for them with our use of them so
all of them we will definitely be
renewing if we haven't already
all right next is our mail forwarding as
you guys know we are residents of Texas
and use escapees and Livingston for our
forwarding and that is $1.99 for the
service we have plus we have also sent
over in increments of 25 bucks a hundred
dollars just on postage for them to mail
stuff from them and of course we have to
talk about our biggest cost of postage
take that yeah be careful when you're
ordering things on Amazon and you're
checking you're selecting an address to
send it to and letting it default yeah
so I made the mistake of trying to send
some purchases to my daughter's house at
the time was in Mississippi and I
inadvertently clicked or left it on our
Livingston Texas address so everything
was sent to Texas when I was expecting
it to go to Mississippi and when I got
the notifications that said it was
delivered I texted my daughter and said
did you get the packages she said no and
it took me about an hour or two to
realize okay I was a bonehead and didn't
change the delivery address so make sure
you're doing that because I paid for
shipping twice well but I had to pay
again to ship a couple of big boxes we
had to pay to ship so kneel to say watch
those addresses don't be a fill next
let's talk about what we spent on BLM
land when we were there I know you guys
hear a lot of people say go to BLM it's
free you can stay for free well you know
nothing in life is free its renew unless
you
are completely sustainable all on your
own nothing is going to be free so we
obviously as you guys know do not have
solar so we use our generator for power
so we actually spent an average of seven
dollars a day on diesel because of the
generator for the 30 days that we Boone
done right and I think part of that
seven dollars was propane because we did
have to use propane no the propane was
an extra two bucks so we had a total of
nine dollars so it was nine dollars I
knew there was a there was something in
there factored in yeah for both of those
so if you add them both together about
nine dollars a day to boondock on BLM
land is not bad and the reason it was
the extra two bucks for propane is
because it was freezing when we were
there and we had to run our heater so
that's why we use so much propane if it
had just been for cooking it would have
been almost minimal yeah so um also be
aware if you have a washer and dryer in
your rig and you don't normally pay for
laundry obviously you're going to be
paying to do your laundry so we also
paid an extra 10 to 20 bucks a week to
do laundry so even though it was pretty
inexpensive in comparison to campgrounds
it was not free right all right and now
the moment everyone is waiting for
Turner what did we spend on campgrounds
I want to remind everyone when we
started out that we didn't have a clue
what we were gonna spend and check out
my budget so the goal is to keep the
campsite to average it out to be $40 a
day so as you can see we were shooting
high you know we were going with $40 at
night which is pretty pretty yeah I
guess middle of the road so you know $40
a day $30 or 30 days a month twelve
hundred bucks a month seemed reasonable
that we could we could pull that off
well ha we beat it by a huge margin
right we came in averaging about $16 a
day yes yes that was a great experience
day so we spent six thousand forty
dollars on campgrounds which averages
out to 503 dollars a month and 1655 a
day so we counted that's fuzzy math
right there but dad is doing well in the
campground budget I was really glad
especially since our
comes did dry up along the way that we
were able to stay as cheap as we did and
how we did it was even more important
yes so um we got a free month of March
and that was because we did that part
coast and yes there's a video on that we
also did the BLM yeah so that brought us
down for a whole bunch so for that month
we were doing nine dollars a day so that
brought down our overall overall cost
and I do say nine dollars a day but that
is not computed into our campground so
technically that was another free month
because that's computed in our fuel and
our propane costs and then staying on
military campgrounds we stayed shorter
we helped a couple of months here and
there and that was averaging around four
hundred and fifty dollars a month when
we stayed there so that brought our
costs down and then our biggest savings
other than then mooch talking and and
BLM land is our very favorite thing yeah
Army Corps of engineer parks yes and
here's a newsflash you don't have to be
affiliated with the military to stay at
any of the Army Corps of engineer
quarries don't tell them oh yeah they're
gonna start hogging up our spots you
have to be sure it's a secret don't let
anybody know but I can tell you that
when we talk to people about those parks
the first thing say is we just we can't
stay there like yes you yes you can and
they have a great website they have an
app and I'm sure Stacy I'll link all of
that below but if you haven't stayed at
Army Corps of engineer campground you're
missing out some of the most beautiful
parks yes
arrange for them is between eleven
dollars and sixteen dollars a night only
a couple that we spend more than that
and remember we are able to stay at that
cost because we have our National Park
Access Pass so if you have a National
Park Access Pass or senior pass when you
book for a corps of engineer parks you
can book for 50% off hey you almost
looked there but I caught myself so
another thing that helped to save money
along our travels was using harvest and
Boone Dockers well welcome both of them
really saved it yeah and we absolutely
love staying at both of them yeah and we
used some as often as we can because in
the long run it brings our overall costs
down we more than made up for the 40
dollars we spent with harvest host ambu
yeah
harvess host is just very peaceful and
quiet you're off the beaten path you
don't have cars racing to the Walmart
parking lot or the Cabela's it's just
very quiet in I don't know it's
different every time yeah it's very
relaxing so we absolutely love the
parvis house for sure all right so our
grand total for these camping items is
twenty eight thousand nine hundred and
forty-one bucks which averages out to
two thousand four hundred and twelve
dollars month you hopefully our next
year review will be a lot less than that
because of those one-time recurring fees
we won't have to worry about them
anymore and we're learning so we're
learning you know it took us a while to
realize you know how great the CEO II
was it took us a while to use Harvest
House as much as we have because we were
nervous about boondocking so we're using
them a lot more toward the end of the
year than we did the beginning so it's
all a learning process yeah and we do
plan to do a lot more boondocking along
our travels and that's definitely gonna
help us I hope the video is helpful for
you and seeing what it costs us to be on
the road obviously everybody spends
different and the size of their rig and
how far they travel and how long they
stay in one spot it's gonna affect how
much money they spend so this is just a
little snapshot of us and how much we
spent
alright so we're gonna take a minute to
answer a few questions for you before we
let you sneak out of here first is about
our new fancy wine see shiny battleborn
batteries we absolutely love them so yes
there is a video coming out about them
and that video is all about us
installing them I'm telling you so far
we absolutely yes and we're gonna have
plenty more on that and how we are
benefiting from our new battleborn
batteries we do not have solar yet yes
we are dreaming of solar we've been
dreaming of solar whether it comes to
fruition this year or not is yet to be
determined yeah who knows we gotta we
gotta play the lotto a little bit for ya
might be a few more can crushing I don't
know maybe fill get a job whoopee who
knows and one more thing for you
we are getting a little bit closer to
25,000 subscribers we thanks to you guys
yeah you and we're very excited about it
and we're just gonna give you a little
teaser here because we are planning
something big for our 25 case
celebration yep with lots of Giveaways
big time giveaway so make sure you stay
tuned and kind of watch us and we're
gonna fill you in as we get closer to 25
who doesn't like free stuff we're
talking major major we can't say who now
but major awesome items you're kind of a
big deal in the RVing industry so it is
all products that it is only I should
say products that we love and we've you
know actually that's what I mean we love
and we use it's not just some
off-the-wall thing we don't know
anything about but it's all stuff that
we love so make sure you stay tuned for
that hmm
should be fun it should be alright again
thanks for watching I hope the video is
helpful make sure you hit that subscribe
button give us a thumbs up and hit the
notification bellow and we will see you
on the road one point why am i pointing
yeah that's called excitement I can't go
into any of these cuz I don't remember
those so our biggest shock of staying
too much what you're like yeah I know I
know I hope this video is helpful little
bit a good looking at you yeah I'll get
it on tape yeah alright but the people
know yeah so you punch it in like this
just like this punch it in yeah just
like this picture okay
[Music]